#  New-PageHeadingNavigation

> ## :bookmark: Synopsis
> Generate navigation specifications for specified headings found in an HTML
> fragment.

# Syntax
```PowerShell
 New-PageHeadingNavigation [-HTMLfragment] <Object> [-NavitemSpecs] <Object[]> [-NavTemplate] <Object> [-HeadingLevels] <String>  [<CommonParameters>] 
```


# Description

Generates a link specification for each heading in an HTML fragment which
* has an `id` attribute
* matches heading level constraint

The link specifications have the format required by [`ConvertTo-NavigationItem`](ConvertTo-NavigationItem.md)
to generate navigation bar items.





# Parameters
 ## HTMLfragment `<Object>`
  >HTML fragment object whose HTMLfragment property contains a HTMLfragment string.
 >Such objects are generated by [`Convert-MarkdownToHTMLFragment`](Convert-MarkdownToHTMLFragment.md).
 >
 >For backward compatibility this parameter can also be a plain string representing
 >the HTML fragment. This is deprecated.
>
> Parameter Property         | Value
> --------------------------:|:----------
> Required?                  | true
> Position?                  | 1
> Default value              | ``
> Accept pipeline input?     | false
> Accept wildcard characters?| false
 - - -
 ## NavitemSpecs `<Object[]>`
  >Navigation specification for links which are to appear on every page right
 >before the page heading navigation links.
 >
 >Usually this specification is something like:
 >
 >`@{ '---' = ''}`
 >:   to add a separator line between the site navigation links from the
 >    page heading navigation links.
 >
 >`@{ 'Page Contents' = ''}`
 >:   to add the label _Page Contents_ separating the site navigation links from
 >    the page heading navigation links.
 >
 >However, all link specifications supported by the `NavitemSpecs`
 >of the function [`New-SiteNavigation`](New-SiteNavigation.md) are supported for this parameter too.
 >
 >**Note!** If this parameter is specified, the HTMLfragment parameter must be
 >a HTML fragment object (such as the one returned by
 >[`Convert-MarkdownToHTMLFragment`](Convert-MarkdownToHTMLFragment.md)).
>
> Parameter Property         | Value
> --------------------------:|:----------
> Required?                  | false
> Position?                  | 2
> Default value              | ``
> Accept pipeline input?     | false
> Accept wildcard characters?| false
 - - -
 ## NavTemplate `<Object>`
  >An optional dictionary of the named HTML template needed to add a heading
 >link to the navigation bar. The dictionary should at least contain a
 >`navheading` specification:
 >
 >+ :--------: + :----------: + ----------------------------------------
 >| Type       | Key          | HTML Template
 >+ ========== + ============ + ========================================
 >| Heading    | "navheading" | ~~~ html
 >| link       |              |<span class='navitem{{level}}'>{{navtext}}</span>"
 >| template   |              | ~~~
 >+ ---------- + ------------ + ----------------------------------------
 >
 >The HTML template above is the value defined in
 >`Build.json`. That value is used if the given dictionary does not define the
 >"navheading" mapping or if no dictionary is given at all. Additional mappings
 >contained in the dictionary not used by this function.
 >
 >For more customization options see
 >[Static Site Project Customization](about_MarkdownToHTML.md#static-site-project-customization).
 >
 >The css styles used in the template is defined in `md-styles.css`.
 >
 >Following placeholders in the HTML template are recognized.
 >
 >| Placeholder   | Description
 >| :-----------: | -----------
 >| `{{level}}`   | heading level.
 >| `{{navtext}}` | heading text
 >
 >During the build process the placeholders are replaced with content taken from
 >the `NavSpec` parameter.
>
> Parameter Property         | Value
> --------------------------:|:----------
> Required?                  | false
> Position?                  | 3
> Default value              | ``
> Accept pipeline input?     | false
> Accept wildcard characters?| false
 - - -
 ## HeadingLevels `<String>`
  >A string of numbers denoting the levels of the headings to add to the navigation
 >bar. By default the headings at level 1,2 and 3 are added to the Navigation bar.
 >If headings should not be automatically added to the navigation bar, use the
 >empty string `''` for this parameter. If omitted, the default configuration
 >defined by option "capture_page_headings" in `Build.json` is used.
>
> Parameter Property         | Value
> --------------------------:|:----------
> Required?                  | false
> Position?                  | 4
> Default value              | ``
> Accept pipeline input?     | false
> Accept wildcard characters?| false



# Inputs
None. This function does not read from a pipe.


# Outputs
HTML elements representing navigation links to headings on the input HTML
fragment for use in the navigation bar of sites created by
`New-StaticHTMLSiteProject`.

# Notes

This function is typically used in the build script `Build.ps1` to define
the contents of the navigation bar (placeholder `{{nav}}`).


# Examples

## EXAMPLE 1

~~~ PowerShell
New-PageHeadingNavigation $fragment -HeadingLevels '234'
~~~


Create an HTML element for navigation to page headings `<h2>`, `<h3>`, `<h4>`.
All other headings are ignored. `$fragment` is a HTML framgment defined as:

~~~ PowerShell
$fragment = '<h2 id="bob">Hello World</h2>'
~~~

Output:

~~~ HTML
<button class="navitem">
   <a href="#bob"><span class="navitem2">Hello World</span></a>
</button>
~~~

Note that the heading level has been added to the css class.












 ## EXAMPLE 2

~~~ PowerShell
Hello World</h2>' -NavTemplate $custom
~~~


Create an HTML element for navigation to an heading using the custom template `$custom`.

~~~ PowerShell
    $custom = @{ navheading = '<span class="li-item{{level}}">{{navtext}}</span>'}
~~~

Output:

~~~ HTML
<button class="navitem">
    <a href="#bob"><span class="li-item2">Hello World</span></a>
</button>
~~~

Note that the heading level is used as a postfix for the css class.














# Related Links

* [https://wethat.github.io/MarkdownToHtml/2.8/New-PageHeadingNavigation.html](https://wethat.github.io/MarkdownToHtml/2.8/New-PageHeadingNavigation.html) 
* [`Convert-MarkdownToHTMLFragment`](Convert-MarkdownToHTMLFragment.md) 
* [`ConvertTo-NavigationItem`](ConvertTo-NavigationItem.md) 
* [`New-SiteNavigation`](New-SiteNavigation.md) 
* [`New-StaticHTMLSiteProject`](New-StaticHTMLSiteProject.md)

- - -

_Module: [MarkDownToHTML](MarkDownToHTML.md); Version: 2.8.0; (c) 2018-2022 WetHat Lab. All rights reserved._
